in the last video we started to talk
about the kernels idea and how it can be
used to define new features for support
vector machine in this video I'd like to
fill in some of the missing details and
also say a few words about how to use
these ideas in practice such as how they
pertain to for example the bias-variance
tradeoff in support vector machines in
the last video I talked about the
process of picking a few landmarks in
your l1 l2 l3 and that allowed us to
define the similarity function also
called a kernel or in this example if
you have this particular similarity
function this is a Gaussian kernel and
that allowed us to build this form of a
hypothesis function but where do we get
these landmarks from where do we get l1
l2 l3 from and it seems also that for
complex learning problems maybe we want
a lot more landmarks than just three of
them that we might choose my hand so in
practice this is how the landmarks are
chosen which is that given a machine
learning problem we have some data set
of some positive and negative examples
so here's your year which is that we're
going to take the examples and for every
training example that we have we're just
going to call it we're just going to put
landmarks as exactly the same locations
as the training examples so if I have
one training example if that's x1 well
then I'm going to choose my first
landmark to be at exactly the same
location as my first training example
and if I have a different training
example x2 well we will set X the second
landmark to be the location of my second
training example on the finger on the
right I used red and blue dots just to
illustration the color of this figure
the color of the dots on the figure on
the right is not significant but what
I'm going to end up with using this
method is I'm going to end up with M
landmarks of l1 l2 down to M if I have M
training examples with one landmark per
location
my per location of each of my training
examples and this is nice because the
saying that my features are basically
going to measure how close an example is
to one of the things I saw in my
training set so just to write this out a
little more concretely
given M training examples I'm going to
choose the location of my landmarks to
be exactly the locations of my M
training examples when you're given an
example X and this example X can be
something in the training set it can be
something in the cross-validation set up
can be something the test set given an
example X I'm going to compute you know
these features as so f1 f2 and so on
where L where L 1 is actually equal to
x1 and so on and these then give me a
feature vector
so let me write f as the feature vector
so I'm going to take these f1 f2 and so
on and just group them into the feature
vector that goes down to FM and you're
just by a convention if we want we can
add an extra feature f0 which is always
equal to 1 so this plays a role similar
to what we had previously for x0 which
one's our intercept term so for example
if we have a training example X I comma
Y I the features we will compute for
this training example will be as follows
given X i we will then map it to you
know f1 I which is the similarity I'm
going to abbreviate it as si M instead
of writing out the whole word similarity
right and f2 I equals the similarity
between X and L 2 and so on down to FM I
equals the similarity between X I
and l/m and somewhere in the middle
somewhere in this list you know at the I
component I will actually have one
feature component which is F subscript I
I which is going to be the similarity
between X and Li where Li is equal to X
I and so you know fi I is just going to
be the similarity between X and itself
and if you're using the Gaussian kernel
this is essentially e to the minus 0
over 2 Sigma squared so this will be
equal to 1 that's ok so one of my
features for this training example is
going to be equal to 1 and that's
similar to what I had above I can take
all of these M features and group them
into a feature vector so instead of
representing my example using you know X
I which is what RN or RN plus 1
dimensional vector dependent value
County in September Z to RN to RN plus 1
we can now instead represent my training
example using this feature vector F I'm
going to write this F superscript I
which is going to be taking all of these
things and stacking them into the
vectors at F 1 I down to F M I and if
you want and what usually will also add
this F 0 I where FC Rho I is equal to 1
and so this vector here gives me my new
feature vector with which to represent
my training example so given these
kernels and similarity functions here's
how we use a support vector machine if
you already have a lower set of
parameters theta then if you given a
value of x and you want to make a
prediction what we do is we compute the
features F which is now a our M plus 1
dimensional feature vector and we have M
here because we have M training examples
and thus M landmarks and what we do is
we predict 1 if theta transpose F is
greater than equal to 0
right so theta transpose F of course
that's just equal to theta 0 F 0 plus
theta 1 f1 plus dot dot plus theta M F M
and so my parameter vector theta is also
now going to be an ever plus 1
dimensional vector and we have M here
because right the number of landmarks is
equal to the training set size so M was
the training set size and now the
parameter vector theta is going to be M
plus 1 dimensional so that's how you
make a prediction if you already have a
setting for the parameters theta how do
you get the parameters theta well you do
that using the SVM learning algorithm
and specifically what you do is you
would solve this minimization problem
you minimize the parameters theta of C
times this cost function which you had
before only now instead of them looking
there instead of making predictions
using theta transpose X I using our
original features X I instead we've
taken the features X I and replace them
with the new features so we're using
theta transpose F I to make a prediction
on the training example you see that in
both places here and this by solving
this minimization problem that you get
the parameters for your support vector
machine and one last detail is because
for this optimization problem we really
have N equals M features that is here
the number of features we have in really
the effective number of features we have
is a dimension of F so that n is
actually going to be equal to M so if
you want to you can think of this as sum
this this really is a sum from J equals
1 through m and then one way to think
about this is you can think of it as n
being equal to M because
if F is a new features that we have you
know n plus one features with the plus
one coming from the Interceptor and here
we still do some from J equals 1 through
m because similar to our earlier videos
on regularization we still do not
regular eyes the parameter theta 0 which
is why this is sum from J equals 1
through m instead of J equals 0 through
n so that's the support vector machine
learning algorithm that's one sort of
mathematical detail aside that I should
mention which is that in the way a
support vector machine is implemented
this last term is that he done a little
bit differently so you don't really need
to know about this last detail in order
to use support vector machines and in
fact the equation that written down here
should give you all the intuitions that
you need but in the way a support vector
machine is implemented you know that
term the sum of a J of theta J squared
right another way to write this is this
is a can be written as theta transpose
theta if we ignore the parameter theta 0
so if theta were you know theta 1 down
to theta M ignoring theta 0 then this
sum sum from sum will be J of theta J
squared that this can also be written
theta transpose theta and what most
support vector machine implementations
do is actually replace this theta
transpose theta would instead theta a
transpose times some matrix inside that
depends on the kernel you use times
theta and so this gives us a slightly
different distance metric like this was
a study different measure of minima
instead of minimizing exactly the norm
of theta squared instead minimize
something slightly similar to it that's
like a rescale version with the
parameter vector theta there depends on
the
but this is kind of a mathematical
detail that allows the support vector
machine software to run much more
efficiently and the reason the support
vector machine does this is with with
this modification it allows it to scale
to much bigger training sets because for
example if you have a training set with
10,000 training examples then you know
the way we define landmarks we end up
with 10,000 landmarks and so theta
becomes 10,000 dimensional maybe that
were but when n becomes really really
big than solving for the all of these
parameters you have and we're 50,000
100,000 then solving for all of these
parameters can become expensive for the
support vector machine optimization
software they're solving the
minimization problem do I drew here so
kind of as a mathematical detail which
again you really don't need to know
about it actually modified it actually
modifies that last term a little bit to
optimize something slightly different
than just minimizing the norm squared of
theta screw of data but if you want you
can think feel free to think of this as
kind of an implementational detail that
does change the objective a bit but is
done primarily for reasons of
computationally computational efficiency
so usually don't really have to worry
about this and by the way if you're
wondering in case you're wondering why
we don't apply the kernels idea to other
algorithms as well languages regression
it turns out that if you want you can
actually apply the kernels idea and
define these sorts of features using
landmarks and so on for logistic
regression
but the computational tricks that apply
for support vector machines don't
generalize well to other algorithms like
logistic regression and so using kernels
with logistic regression is going to be
very slow whereas because of
computational tricks like that embodied
and how it multiplies this and the
details of how the support vector
machine software is implemented support
vector machines and kernels tend to go
particularly well together
whereas logistic regression and kernels
you know you can do a person will run
very slowly and
won't be able to take advantage of
advanced optimization techniques that
people have figured out for the
particular case running a support vector
machine with a kernel but all this
pertains only to how you actually
implement software to minimize the cost
function I'll say more about that in the
next video but you really don't need to
know about how to write software to
minimize this cost function because you
can find very good off-the-shelf
software for doing so and just as you
know I wouldn't recommend writing code
to invert a matrix or to compute a
square root I actually do not recommend
writing software to minimize this cost
function yourself but instead to use
off-the-shelf software packages that
people have developed and so those
software packages already embody this
these numerical optimization tricks and
so you don't really have to worry about
them but one other thing that is worth
knowing about is when you're applying a
support vector machine how do you choose
the parameters of the support vector
machine and the last thing I want to do
this video is say a little bit about the
bias and variance trade-offs when using
a support vector machine when using an
SVM one of the things you need to choose
is the parameter C which was in
optimization objective and you recall
that C played a role similar to 1 over
lambda where lambda was the
regularization parameter we have the
logistic regression so if you have a
large value of C this corresponds to
what we had back in logistic regression
of a small value of lambda meaning of
not using much regularization and if you
do that you tend to have a hypothesis
with lower bias and higher variance
whereas if you use a smaller value of C
that this corresponds to when we're
using logistic regression with a large
value of lambda and that corresponds to
a hypothesis with higher back bias and
lower variance and so hypothesis with
large C has a higher variance and it's
more prone to overfitting
whereas hypotheses of small C has higher
bias and is thus more prone to
underfitting
so this parameter C is one of the
Frances we need to choose the other one
is the parameter Sigma squared which
appeared in the Gaussian kernel so if
the Gaussian kernel Sigma squared is
large then in the similarity function
which was this you know e to the minus X
minus Landmark right I squared over 2
Sigma squared in this 1d example if I
have only one feature X 1 if I have a
landmark there at that location if Sigma
squared is large then you know the
Gaussian kernel will tend to fall off
relatively slowly and so this will be my
feature F I and so this would be a
smoother function that varies more
smoothly and so this would give me a
hypothesis with higher bias and lower
variance because the Gaussian kernel
that falls off smoothly you tend to get
the hypothesis that very slowly or very
smoothly as you change the input X
whereas in contrast if Sigma squared was
small then if that's my landmark given
my 1 feature x1 you know my Gaussian
kernel my similarity function will vary
more abruptly in both cases of PK 1 and
so if Sigma squared is small then my
feature is very less movies of just a
higher slope so higher derivatives here
and using this you end up fitting
hypotheses with lower bias and you can
have higher variance and if you look at
this week's program exercise you
actually get to play around with some of
these ideas yourself and see these
effects yourself
so that was the support vector machine
with kernels algorithm and hopefully
this discussion of fighters and variants
will give you some sense of how you can
expect this algorithm to behave as well